---
layout: codePost
title: "om2-IOSkinClusters"
isPost: true
description: "Used to import / export skinWeights"
usage: "Please see the commented code at the bottom for usage"
lastUpdated: "07-29-2018"
category: om2
---

K this has been a bit of an experiment.

Previously I was using a mix of om1 and om2 as per Hamish Mackenzies
post here: http://www.macaronikazoo.com/?p=417

So this time around I wanted to gun for nothing but om2. Which mean't
taking a somewhat non standard approach.

It appears to be working, have tested this on various skins, and while
comments are not on the ghpages static sites I'd love to hear how this
is working for any one brave enough to test it.

Should be okay to throw it into the wild. I've condensed all the
required functions from my lib into this post so everything should work
directly from the below functions [thus avoiding the lib].

From the maya skinCluster docs:<br>
<i>"The weights for the skinCluster are stored in the multi-multi attribute
called weightList[].weights[]. The first index of the multi is the index
of the vertex. The second is the index of the influence object. The
weights are in general stored sparsely, so if you weigh a vertex by two
of the 50 influence objects, only two elements exist in the weights array
for that vertex. The exception is that if data exists in the data block
and is later set to zero by some operation, the zero-valued data remains
in the data block until the file is saved. When the file is saved, the file
save code determines that the value zero is the default data, which does
not need to be saved. The next time the file is read, only the non-zero
valued elements will exist in the skinCluster."</i>

Note: If you do copy paste from below, depenency will be simplejson!!

{% gist de9b71ec57b820a9d763954957b625ac %}
