---
layout: codePost
title: "om2-skinTo"
isPost: true
description: "Used to transfer a skin to another mesh(es)"
usage: "select the source, then destination mesh(es) or curve(s) and run skinTo()"
lastUpdated: "01-02-2018"
---

<br> Note to self: Seems you need to write "something" before the {{ content }} can use the highlighter!

{% highlight python %}

"""2018 James Dunlop"""
import maya.api.OpenMaya as om2
import maya.cmds as cmds
import logging
import time

logging.basicConfig()
logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

def skinTo(maxInfluences=4, byUVSpace=False, uvSpace=['map1', 'map1'], surfaceAssociation="closestComponent"):
    """
    Supports: kMesh and kNurbsCurve
    Use this to copy the skin weights from one mesh to another.
    Note: You don't need to have an existing skinCluster on the mesh you want to transfer to. It will bind for you.
    @:param maxInfluences: is the number of max influences on the source
    @:param byUVSpace: if you want to xFer using UV maps or not
    @:param uvSpace: The uvSpace flag indicates that the weight transfer should occur in UV space, based on the source
                     and destination UV sets specified.
    @:param surfaceAssociation: The surfaceAssociation flag controls how the weights are transferred between the
                            surfaces: "closestPoint", "rayCast", or "closestComponent". The default is closestComponent.
    :return:
    """
    start = time.time()
    mySel = om2.MSelectionList()
    for eachMesh in cmds.ls(sl=True, long=True):
        mySel.add(eachMesh)

    ## Bail out if bad selection
    if mySel.length() < 2:
        logger.warning("You must select a source mesh then ## of destination meshes!")
        return

    # Find the skinCluster and the influences we need to bind.
    sourceMObj = mySel.getDependNode(0)
    sourceMObjH = om2.MObjectHandle(sourceMObj)
    sourceMFnDep = om2.MFnDependencyNode(sourceMObj)
    sourceSkCls = _findSkinCluster(sourceMObjH)
    if sourceSkCls is None:
        logger.warning("No valid skinCluster could be found on {}".format(sourceMFnDep.name()))
        return

    bindInfluences = _findInfluences(sourceSkCls)

    ## Now bind each mesh to these influences
    for x in range(mySel.length()):
        ## Skip source mesh
        if x == 0:
            continue
        destMObj = mySel.getDependNode(x)
        destMObjH = om2.MObjectHandle(destMObj)
        destMFnDep = om2.MFnDependencyNode(destMObj)
        skCls = _findSkinCluster(destMObjH)
        bind = True
        if skCls is not None:
            logger.warning("Found a skinCluster on {}. Skipping bind!".format(destMFnDep.name()))
            bind = False

        if bind:
            ## Here we have to use CMDS to create the darn skinCluster and xfer!
            ## Note happy mixing cmds and om2 but short of writing a full om2 bind I'm sticking to this for now.
            cmds.skinCluster(bindInfluences + [destMFnDep.name()], name="{}_skCls".format(destMFnDep.name()),
                             before=True, maximumInfluences=maxInfluences)

        ## Now copy the weights over
        srcSkCls_MFnDep = om2.MFnDependencyNode(sourceSkCls.object())
        if byUVSpace:
            cmds.copySkinWeights(sourceSkin=srcSkCls_MFnDep.name(),
                                 destinationSkin="{}_skCls".format(destMFnDep.name()),
                                 sa=surfaceAssociation,
                                 noMirror=True,
                                 ia=["closestJoint", "label", ],
                                 uvSpace=uvSpace)
        else:
            cmds.copySkinWeights(sourceSkin=srcSkCls_MFnDep.name(),
                                 destinationSkin="{}_skCls".format(destMFnDep.name()),
                                 sa=surfaceAssociation,
                                 noMirror=True,
                                 ia=["closestJoint", "label", ])

    logger.info("SkinTo complete! Time taken: {}secs".format(start-time.time()))

#######################################################################################################################
### UTILS
def _iterForSkinCluster(node):
    """
    Protected function to source the skinCluster form the inMesh connection to the shapeNode
    This means if any blendshape colorSets etc etc it won't fail!
    @:param node: MObject for the source connection
    """
    skNode = None
    if node.apiType() == om2.MFn.kSkinClusterFilter:
        skNode = om2.MObjectHandle(node)
    else:
        mFn = om2.MFnDependencyNode(node)
        inputGeo_attr = mFn.attribute('inputGeometry')
        if om2.MObjectHandle(inputGeo_attr).isValid():
            inputGeo_plug = om2.MPlug(node, inputGeo_attr)
            newSource = inputGeo_plug.source().node()
            skNode = _iterForSkinCluster(newSource)
            return skNode

    return skNode

def _findSkinCluster(mesh=None):
    """
    Returns a skinCluster attached to the kMesh or kNurbsCurve
    @:param mesh: MObjectHandle. Using the handles here may be playing it a little too safe. But meh.
    :return: MObject
    """
    if not mesh.isValid():
        logger.warning("Destination is no longer valid!")
        return

    dagPath = om2.MDagPath()
    geo = dagPath.getAPathTo(mesh.object())

    ## Does it have a valid number of shapes?
    if geo.numberOfShapesDirectlyBelow() != 0:
        ## Fetch the shape of the geo now.
        shapeMobj = geo.extendToShape().node()
        mFn_shape = om2.MFnDependencyNode(shapeMobj)
        apiType = shapeMobj.apiType()
        if apiType == om2.MFn.kMesh:
            ## Look at the inMesh attr for the source
            inMesh_attr = mFn_shape.attribute('inMesh')
        elif apiType == om2.MFn.kNurbsCurve:
            inMesh_attr = mFn_shape.attribute('create')
        else:
            logger.warning("This type of om2.MFn node is not supported! int: {}".format(apiType))
            return

        inMesh_plug = om2.MPlug(shapeMobj, inMesh_attr)
        getSource = inMesh_plug.source().node()

        ## Now use the iterForSkinCluster() function to find the skinCluster in the connected network.
        skinClusterNode_MObjH = _iterForSkinCluster(getSource)

        if skinClusterNode_MObjH is not None:
            return skinClusterNode_MObjH
        else:
            return None

    return None

def _findInfluences(skinClusterMobjH=None):
    """
    Returns all the valid influences from the .matrix attribute on the skinCluster node.
    @:param mesh: MObjectHandle for the skinCluster. Using the handles here may be playing it a little too safe. But meh.
    :return: MObject
    """
    if not skinClusterMobjH.isValid():
        logger.warning("Skincluster is no longer valid! Did it get deleted?")
        return

    skClsMFnDep = om2.MFnDependencyNode(skinClusterMobjH.object())
    mtxAttr = skClsMFnDep.attribute("matrix")
    matrixPlug = om2.MPlug(skinClusterMobjH.object(), mtxAttr)

    ## Get a list of all the valid connected indices in the matrix array now.
    indices = matrixPlug.getExistingArrayAttributeIndices()
    influences = []
    for idx in indices:
        influences.append(om2.MFnDependencyNode(matrixPlug.elementByLogicalIndex(idx).source().node()).absoluteName())

    return influences



{% endhighlight %}